Good morning, church family.
It is good to be gathered with you, worshiping the Lord on this cold, cold morning.
You know, today's service is gonna be a little bit different, but that is a good thing for the past month.
We have been in a sermon series called Who Is Canopy Roads?
And maybe you're thinking, why doesn't it start with what is canopy roads?
The answer for that is really, really simple.
And that is because the church really is a who.
The church is not a what?
The church is people, not a building.
And we've really spent these past four weeks now looking at who are we as a church?
What does it mean to be canopy roads here in Tallahassee?
We've looked at a lot of different things.
We've looked at our mission, which is really what we believe God has called us to do.
We've looked at our vision.
That is where we believe the Lord is leading us over the next 20 years.
We've touched on our values.
which answers really the question of why we do the things that we do.
It's the why behind everything we do here as canopy roads.
And then we've also looked at mission measures.
Mission measures really answers the question, how do we know that we're making progress toward the things that God wants us to be doing, the things that God wants us to be pursuing?
And then last week, we actually talked about our brand.
And remember, our brand is real church, I'm sorry, real people, real church,
real change.
That's who we want to be known for in this community.
And I'll be the first to admit that is a lot of information.
There was a lot of information packed in those four weeks.
But I want you to know the intent of this series was not to just be an information only series.
The intent was not just simply to share information and then sit on it.
The intent really of the series was to share information, yes,
but information that would lead to application.
We don't want to be a church that just hears things and just keeps them to ourself.
Rather, we want to be a church that hears things, hears information, hears truth from God and does something with it.
We put it into practice, we obey it, we apply it.
Remember Jesus, he kind of gave a warning in the sermon on the Mount.
Remember, he said, a person who hears things hears information or truth and doesn't do anything with it.
He said, he's kind of like a person that builds their house on shifting sand.
Remember, he said, the storm comes, the winds blow, the rains fall, and the house collapses.
So we don't want to be that kind of church.
We want to be a church that hears information, hears truth from God, and puts it into practice.
And so really, our time today is geared towards that.
We want to quite literally move from FYI for your information
to DIY, which is do it yourself.
And so today, our big idea is simply this, Jesus, his vision for the church is not just FYI, it's not just for your information, but DIY.
So we've been praying for our time together this morning that as we meet with God, that as we spend time together in prayer, and as we hear from him, that we would quite literally move from FYI to DIY, that is,
What is your part in the vision this year?
That's what we're going to be talking about this morning.
Many times we think that because we are active or doing something, that we are getting somewhere and accomplishing something.
And that if we're not doing something, if we're inactive, that means nothing is being done.
But then we have verses in the Bible that say something like be still and know that I am God.
We have verses like James 119 that says be quick to listen, slow to speak and slow to become angry.
And it's very interesting right after that verse, it says don't just be hearers of the word, but doers of the word.
That we need to be quick to listen to God
who is speaking through his word, and that's what we're gonna be doing this morning.
We're gonna be reading a passage at about four different times this morning, and each time we read it, you're gonna have a reflection or something you're going to be focused on.
Whenever I read it, I'm gonna be reading it from the English standard version this first time, and as I'm reading the passage, I want you to be asking God, what word are you impressing on my heart?
Just one word.
And I want you to listen to God.
And after I read the passage, we're going to spend two minutes of reflection asking God, which word is it?
Which word are you pressing on my heart?
And then after we spend that time in reflection, then you're going to get to write that word down.
So the passage we're going to be reading is in Luke 15, verses one through seven.
And God's word says, now the tax collectors and sinners were all drawing near to him.
and the Pharisees and the scribes grumbled, saying, this man received sinners and eats with them.
So he told them this parable, what man of you, having a hundred sheep, if he has lost one of them, does not leave the 99 in the open country and go after the one that is lost until he finds it.
And when he has found it,
He lays it on his shoulders, rejoicing.
And when he comes home, he calls together his friends and his neighbors, saying to them, rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep that was lost.
Just so I tell you, there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents than over 99 righteous persons who need no repentance.
Spend some time reflecting on what word God is pressing on your heart.
We're speaking to our hearts and showing us, Father, what you want us to see in your word.
Thank you for giving us that singular word that you are impacting our heart with right now so that we know where you want us to focus.
In Jesus' name, amen.
Now take that one word, if you haven't already, and write it down on your paper so you do not forget.
that one word that God just pressed on your heart.
And we're going to read through these verses another time.
This time you need to focus on a phrase or idea.
Now something bigger than just one word that you were just focusing on.
And so we're gonna read through this passage in the NIV version of the Bible.
And as I read it, I want you to ask God to show you an idea or a phrase
that is bigger than just the one word that you focused on this time.
Ask God to speak to you as I read his word.
Now the tax collectors and sinners were all giving around to hear Jesus.
But the Pharisees and the teachers of the law muttered, this man welcomes sinners and eats with him.
Then Jesus told them, this parable.
Suppose one of you has a hundred sheep and loses one of them.
Doesn't he leave the 99 in the open country and go after the lost sheep until he finds it?
And when he finds it, he joyfully puts it on his shoulders and goes home.
Then he calls his friends and neighbors together and says, rejoice with me.
I have found my lost sheep.
I tell you that in the same way, there will be more rejoicing in heaven
Over one sinner who repents, then over 99 righteous persons who do not need to repent, spend some time reflecting on what idea or phrase that God wants you to focus on.
God, you speak.
You have something to say to each of us.
And I thank you, Father, for pressing on our hearts.
I thought or an idea that you're wanting to transform us with this morning.
We thank you, God, that we know that you are a God who is pursuing us and has mighty and powerful things to say.
Thank you for this moment.
And we pray this in Jesus' name.
Amen.
So whatever phrase or idea that God impressed on your heart, you can write that down in just a few words on the provided blank on your sheet.
So now you have a singular word.
You have an idea.
I'm going to read the same passage again.
but in the new living translation.
And I wanna challenge you this time, as we go to the text, that you be listening specifically for what the Lord wants you to do.
And I wanna challenge you, try to be as specific as you can.
You have a word, now you have an idea, now you're listening for your next step.
And so, as I read, be thinking about specifically, Lord, what do you want me to do, given this word,
given this idea, what is my next step with this?
This is from the new living translation.
Tax collectors and other notorious sinners often came to listen to Jesus' teach.
This made the Pharisees and the teachers of religious law complain that he was associating with such sinful people, even eating with them.
So Jesus told them this story.
If a man has 100 sheep
And one of them gets lost.
What will he do?
Won't he leave the 99 others in the wilderness and go to search for the one that is lost until he finds it?
And when he is found it, he will joyfully carry it home on his shoulders.
When he arrives, he will call together his friends and neighbors saying, rejoice with me because I found my lost sheep in the same way
There is more joy in heaven over one lost center who repents and returns to God than over 99 others who are righteous and haven't strayed away.
At this time, let's spend a few minutes again reflecting on and praying about what you just heard.
And remember, you're listening for a next step.
God, what are you asking me to do?
Having spent time in your word,
having heard from you specifically, what are you asking me to do?
Spend some time reflecting and being with the Lord this morning.
We praise you for being a God that reveals yourself to us.
We don't have to wonder and guess at what you are like.
We can read your word and look to the person of Jesus and know exactly what you're like.
We can know the heart of God.
Father, we thank you as Jase has already prayed.
Pastor Jase has already prayed that you're a God who speaks.
And not just a God who speaks from the heavens, but a God who speaks and whispers to individual hearts.
So this morning we come with listening ears, ears that want to commune with you and spend time with you.
But sometimes it can be hard to hear just because of the noise or the hurry or the distractions that we have.
And so this morning, Lord, I do pray for clarity that in the midst of all those things, in the midst of life, in the middle of all that goes on with that, that your voice would cut through, that we would seek you first, and that we would hear your voice, and not just hear it, but obey it, and take whatever step that is that you're calling us to in faith.
Or if there's a little bit of hesitation in some people as to what maybe you've shared with them this morning.
Or I think that's part of what it means to live by faith.
That you are calling us quite literally to step out of our comfort zone and into a zone where we trust you.
And so Lord, help us to do that this morning.
If perhaps someone wrote something down that surprised them.
a pray that you'd remind them that even though they're stepping out of their comfort zone, that you're there, that you're stepping into faith, that they're stepping into trust.
And Lord, you've got some things planned that will just put a smile on your face and surprise us in ways that we could never imagine.
Lord, this year we want to be a people
that do, a people that obey.
We pray that you would help us to do just that in Jesus' name.
Amen.
At this time, if you haven't had a chance to quite, you know, write your thought down, crystallize your thought.
I want to encourage you.
There's a line that says, you know, my DIY, whatever that thing is, that idea is, that next step is, why don't you write it down there?
So that you remember it after this morning and you can take it with you and I encourage you to even keep this in your Bible this year to keep you focused this year on what your part is in the vision here at Canopy Roads.
And as you wrap that up, the band is going to play.
I'm going to invite you to stand as we sing together.
So since we've only read this three times, I want to read this passage again.
so important.
This is from the English standard version.
Now the tax collectors and sinners were drawing near to him.
And the Pharisees inscribed grumble saying, this man received sinners and eats with them.
So we told him this parable.
What man of you having a hundred sheep if he's lost one of them does not leave the 99 in an open country and go after the one that is lost?
until he finds it.
And when he is found it, he lays it on his shoulders rejoicing.
And when he comes home, he calls together his friends and his neighbors, saying, then rejoice with me.
If I have found my sheep that was lost, just so.
I'll tell you, there'll be more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents, but over 99 righteous persons who need no repentance.
There are three movements.
In this passage, you've probably seen it.
First, something was lost.
A sheep was lost.
Just one.
And that one sheep, number two, was worthy of an all-out search.
How long did the shepherd search?
Until what?
Until he found it.
We don't know how long that was.
It might have been five minutes.
It might have been five hours.
But he looked and looked and looked and looked until he found that one lost sheep.
And there's a third movement.
What happened after he found it?
I found my sheep.
Come rejoice with me.
It was such a big deal when he found that one lost sheep.
He wanted to tell everybody about it.
He wanted everybody else to be just as excited as he was.
But those of you who know me well know I grew up on a cattle ranch.
We did this.
Every time we got
The cows together to feed them or to work with them, dad would count.
And I learned when I was a little boy to start counting with them.
Sometimes I'd get more than I was supposed to.
I'd count one twice and moving around, but we had to count.
He'd ask me, how many did you get?
Well, I got so and so if you need to count again.
And this time of year was calving season for us.
Pretty tough to have a calf outdoors in this environment.
And it gets cold in Alabama, too.
And back in the 60s and early 70s, it seemed to be really cold.
There were a lot of times we'd go out there to count and to be in the teens.
The pond would be frozen over on the edge.
I remember several times we'd go out and we'd count those calving cows.
The ones who were pregnant and the ones who had the little calves, we'd count them.
One was missing.
Dad never said, well, at least we got most of them.
No, he'd go look, we'd go look and we'd look and look and look and sometimes it was hard to find that one lost cow.
And she was trying to have a calf and couldn't and we'd have to get her up and bring her to the barn and we'd help her deliver the calf.
But sometimes on a cold morning like this, I remember several times, we'd go out and we found that cow off by ourselves and over there was a calf that had just been born.
And sometimes there'd been some sleet the night before
And that poor old fella came out wet and this rain or sleeting on him.
And this in the 20s and the winds blowing us in the teens.
And he's just shivering over there.
And dad said, he's not going to make it.
We got to get him, son.
And we got to take him to the house.
So we get out there and we put that calf in the truck, trying to keep the cow from killing us when we're taking her calf.
And she would come, she'd follow us all the way to the house.
You know, following that little calf?
We took that calf, put him in the bathtub in our house, wore metal sucker up, then we took him back to his mama and he survived.
Because that one little calf was worth all that trouble, all that trouble.
I want you to look at the last verse of John 15, one to seven.
He says, just so or in the same way, I tell you,
There'll be more joy in heaven over one center who repents.
Now the word center, don't, don't miss what he's saying here and the way the New Testament uses this word.
Center is not used to say these really bad people.
There's a lot of joy when this convict, when this criminal, when this person who's just reprobated or whatever might be person that you would think,
Someone else might think this is a really bad person.
The truth is we're all born sinners because we all sin, right?
Every single one of us.
So he says, there's more joy over one sinner who repents.
Now, repents is a church word that a lot of people who don't really understand this think that, and sometimes people misuse it and they throw it in people's face and they try to
They repent, repent, repent, and they use it in kind of an angry way, and that's not the shepherd.
Where are you dumbed, lost sheep?
It's cold out here.
Where are you stupid, lost sheep?
No, the shepherd loves a sheep, and it's lost.
So repent means to change the way you think, and that change in the way you think results in the change in the way you act.
There's more joy in heaven over one center who repents than over nine and nine righteous persons who need no repentance.
The righteous persons, not talking about self-righteous people, I'm good enough I don't need to do that.
Nobody is worthy of heaven on their own.
This is talking about people who've already repented.
They were sinners who repented and now they're in the fold, they're in God's family.
Maybe
As you reflect on this story today, you feel like God is saying to you, you're a lost sheep, and I love you so much.
I love you so much that I sent my son to the cross to pay the penalty for your sins.
Yeah, you were a sinner, but your sins have already been paid for.
But I won't make you repent.
That's up to you.
Lost.
You ever been lost?
Lost is kind of a weird thing.
It's a weird feeling to be lost.
I've been lost a lot of times.
More times before we had GPS than since we had GPS in terms of travel.
And the weird thing about being lost is that I was lost before I knew I was lost.
Can you identify with that?
You were lost a long time before you realized, I don't know where I am.
Or maybe you've been lost in life.
Maybe you came to a crossroads in life and you felt like you got to the point where I thought I knew what I was doing.
I thought I knew where I wanted to go and I don't.
I feel kind of lost.
I'm uncertain.
I just, I'm lost.
That can happen in your spiritual life as well.
I think I got all things figured out about God and about life and about the future and I'm comfortable with who I am and what I believe in.
And then maybe as you go along in life, you begin to have a little doubt.
I'm not quite sure if I haven't figured out.
And then one day, you know what?
I don't have it figured out.
I'm lost.
See, lostness, people have recognition of lostness at different times.
Some people recognize their spiritual lostness as kids.
and others in the teenage years, and then others of us in adulthood, and sometimes way, way into adulthood.
I've led people to Christ in their 80s.
They're catching the last train, but they caught it because the shepherd loves them.
Are you sense that that might be you today?
That you might be
a lost sheep.
I mean, only you and talking to God would discern that.
If you're a lost sheep and you realize today, I think I'm lost.
The shepherd has gone on an all out search for you.
And he has gone to the cross on your behalf, just like he searched for me.
And I'm so glad that when I was lost, when I was at center, other people
cared for me, introduced me to the gospel, and I met Jesus, and I trusted and followed Him.
I'm so glad that even though I was a sinner, Jesus loved me, He gave His life for me, and I'm found today.
I'm in God's family.
And most of the people in this room would say the same thing.
I'm so glad that even though I didn't know I was lost for a long time, that came a point where I realized I was lost, and I was found.
I placed my faith in trust in Jesus for what he did for me on the cross.
I believe that he died for my sin.
He rose from the dead.
He's alive today.
And I said, Jesus, I trust in you.
Please forgive my sins.
And I want to be one of your followers.
So I would invite you if that's if you're feeling like you're that lost sheep today, you could say today is the day.
I realize, you know what?
I'm lost, but I don't want to stay lost.
because I know that Jesus loves me and I want to trust and follow Him.
Would you just pray with me?
If you sense that's you, if you sense that you really are that lost sheep and maybe you realize, gosh, you know, I've been lost for a long time, but I wasn't sure about it.
I thought something different or felt like I had things figured out, but I realized that there's a lot more doubt about what I thought was right
than there is truth to it.
So I just want to trust Jesus.
If that's you Lord, nobody can do that for you, but Jesus invites you to be rescued.
Man, he went to a great extent to show his love for you, just like he did for me and everyone else in this room.
If you want to be found, if you want to trust and follow Jesus, be forgiven for your sins, be adopted into God's family.
and to have a permanent reservation in heaven for the rest of eternity.
You can do that today.
You can't earn it.
You didn't deserve it anymore than I did, but Jesus offers that as a gift.
If you'd like to receive that gift eternal life today, you can do so right now just you and God do it a little business.
We just tell Jesus, if that's what you wanna do, tell Jesus, Jesus, I know I'm lost.
And I thank you for helping me realize that.
I'm a sinner.
And I thank you, Lord, for loving me in spite of that and for paying the price for my sins.
I believe in you, Jesus.
Please forgive me for my sins right now and come into my life.
Today,
I want to become a fountain sheep.
And I want to begin trusting and following you beginning today.
Thank you, Jesus, for forgiving me.
Thank you for bringing me into your family.
Thank you for the gift of eternal life.
In Jesus name, I pray.
Amen.